And everyone says, like, "That doesn't
make sense. How's that even possible?"
We're like, "It is possible."
>> It was just a bet. Yeah, we didn't know
if it was possible. We didn't really
know if it was possible.
>> But it is possible. Like,
There's one thing that comes to mind
for me, and that was from 22 Jump Street
in the scene where Channing Tatum's
character figures out that Jonah's
character had had sex with Ice Cube's
daughter in the film. And what was
really fun about that was when we were
rehearsing it, we had you know we had a
plan and a schedule and we had our our
shots lined up for what we needed to do
for the scene. But while we were
rehearsing it, uh Channing said,
"I can't stay in this room. If I found
out that information, I would have to
run around the office and high-five
everyone and skip. I would never just
sit here."
>> So, yeah.
>> we said, "That's an amazing idea. Cancel
your dinner plans."
>> [laughter]
>> Because we're going to set up a bunch of
cameras all over the office. So, we
pulled camera from second unit and set
up as many cameras as we possibly could.
What we're talking about is not a single
shot so much as a single setup. We
basically only wanted him to have to do
this once. So, we set up two big wide
shots, like a big wide proscenium shot
from outside a glass cube that was Ice
Cube's office. See if you can get the
visual pun. And then a second one at
high angle that was like looking down
into the cube that could like pan pan or
with
uh Chan. And then we told Chan, "You can
do what whatever you want." Just do what
you would do.
>> capture it. And he went nuts and skipped
and danced and banged on the walls and
high-fived all of the extras in the
scene, jumped up and down, and then a
hoot and a holler, and it became one of
the funniest scenes uh of the whole
movie and it was sort of a testament to
a good idea
has to be chased and that's why we go to
the movies.
>> Yo, you're the best thing ever.
>> [laughter]
>> It's the second like set up like that
that we did with Channing.
>> It's true.
>> What's the one where he jumped through a
gong?
>> Through a gong.
>> That was from 21 Jump Street [laughter]
where we
where they were high and we had them we
set up a whole student band. That was a
real student band.
>> And we had them him just like we've set
up a playground for you can do whatever
you want but you're high and you can
just mess around with a bunch of
instruments.
>> And these are the three instruments that
you can destroy.
>> Right.
>> [laughter]
>> And we did the same thing we just set
the cameras and let them rip.
>> Yo, keep it going.
Keep it going. THAT WAS SO TIGHT.
THE REVEAL of Metal Beard's pirate ship
on the Lego seas because when we started
making this movie we said everything is
going to be built out of bricks and that
includes you know atmospherics and
environments, explosions, fire, water,
and clouds, smoke, everything would be
animated Lego bricks and everyone says
like that doesn't make sense. How's that
even possible? We're like it is
possible. And so we worked
>> That was something that was just a bet.
>> Yeah, we didn't know if it was possible.
>> But it is possible like if you were
making a stop motion film like and you
wanted to represent water with Lego
bricks you want to do like a Hokusai's
wave you could you could build different
shapes and have them undulate and so we
worked with the team at Animal Logic who
built these like models and figured out
how to like transpose them into existing
Lego bricks of various shapes and sizes.
>> The goal was to make it feel like a kid
had
made this shot in their basement with
infinite money and infinite time.
So that it just felt like a painstaking
like
maniac had done it in stop motion. Which
meant that the animal team had to do all
the normal like fluid dynamics
>> Right. Water breaking on the hull of the
of the ship and white white white caps.
>> Right. And then teach the computer to
translate that into LEGO bricks frame by
frame. So, basically writing an
algorithm so that the computer could
figure out, "Okay, if I was going to
make this volume of water with this
amount of white caps, I would use these
bricks." And we would could tell it like
we had a little dial where like use only
like 1 by 4s. Right. And and and with
limited colors like exactly what's
available to a LEGO enthusiast.
Um and then do that every frame. And
then we also had to figure out should
this be on twos, on ones, a combination
of both. What would look the most like
stop motion.
We had a fun thing that allowed the
animators access to
LEGO Digital Designer, which is a like
consumer thing where you can build your
own LEGO with pieces that you can buy
and then design it and then order the
pieces. But they had that to use
to to build things in the shot using
resources that actually exist. And so,
the animators could then tweak with
their own bricks like I'm going to take
well a little cheese slope from here and
a little little thing from there and
like stick it on there and just give it
its own extra character on top of all
that
stuff. So, it was a very difficult shot
to execute. It was one of the last ones
that finished in the movie.
>> every single department to be like
firing on all cylinders. But it has this
sort of wow factor when you when you
watch it that makes you go like, "Oh,
this is I'm glad I saw this on a a
screen cuz I can see all the detail that
went into it.
The shot that comes to mind is
something that was actually written onto
the page. And this film is wonderfully
directed by Bob Persichetti and Peter
Ramsey and Rodney Rothman.
And the thing that we wrote into the
script was Miles jumps off a building to
test his spider powers. He makes a leap
of faith. And on the page it said, "We
realize he's not falling, he's rising."
Which meant that the camera had to be
180°
the other way. So he's not And it's like
a What I love about it is it's a um
it's an emotional idea that is rendered
cinematically. And it's so surprising to
see
that image and it immediately makes you
understand that he's
fulfilling some version of his destiny.
And and when we were working on the
movie and and designed it, we were
really excited about the just the the
composition of the shot with the
buildings at the top of the frame and
this very clear little silhouette slowly
rising in the center. And then the
second time we saw it, someone thought
it was a mistake and flipped it uh to
the correct the correct orientation.
We're like, "What happened?" And they're
like, "Oh, no. They Well, someone must
have thought that we had it wrong." And
and what was great about that shot is it
became a keystone for how
everybody approached that franchise,
which is if you're a spider person, up
isn't always up. Some sequences are like
at 90° and they're walking up a
building, but to them the building is
the floor. You know, we also learned how
willing the audience were to go along
with that and to follow it even if
um on
on paper it you might worry that it was
confusing. Right? Mhm. But they kind of
just go with it.
>> along with it.
>> Yeah.
That's all it is, Miles.
A leap of faith.
>> [music]
>> On the hull of the ship,
uh looking at the the green planet of
Adrian, as Ryan Gosling's character is
collecting a sample of
uh these invisible microbes called
Astrophage that are all around him, but
invisible to the naked eye, only visible
in infrared. And we are backing up where
we see this person up against a
beautiful
uh swirling clouds of a of this uh
planet from another solar system. And as
we back up, we pull the uh the filter
out that blocks infrared light and turn
the camera into
uh an IR camera, and then suddenly it
turns pink and he's surrounded by uh by
by little blinking lights. And we really
did this with a real uh uh ALEXA 65 and
a filter and turned it into a an
infrared camera. We also in that scene,
for all of the close-ups, built this
cage of chicken wire with a bunch of
infrared uh lights that would blink and
flicker, and we put Ryan in there in the
space suit
like moving around as though he could
sense that there these lights were
around him, but he couldn't see
anything. To the naked eye, you couldn't
see anything, but then Greg Fraser,
amazing cinematographer, Legend. had had
built this device with two panes of
glass and a funnel and a hose and a tank
of water that was like dribbling water
through two panes of glass, and he had
his camera in in IR mode like
looking at at Ryan and looking at all
these bokeh lights like flickering all
around that were really all around Ryan
in this cage that we had built. That
scene is MOS. Yes.
>> It's because the whole time you're just
hearing this like pump that's pumping
water in front of the camera lens. And
The idea came out of like a camera test
that we did when when we were talking
about doing IR shots and Greg said,
well, this is what happens when you just
pull the filter out. And and we were
like, that's beautiful. It's weird and
pink and I've seen IR treated, you know,
like black and white in other movies or
like deep red, but like this strangeness
of what the sensor actually does when
the light hits it. That feels like this
movie. This movie that's like governed
by like science and and trying to find
the beauty in the things that really
happen. You pull this one filter out of
the camera. You literally take your
blinders off and are exposed to a much
more vibrant and broad spectrum of
light. And in the whole movie Ryan is
slowly try learning about another person
in this alien that he meets and also
getting closer to the people on Earth
that are in his past. And I really love
how the movie cinematically
um tries to make you more empathetic.
If Grace Rocky [music] saves stars,
we can go home.
One of our favorite movies, both mine
and Chris. We met in college [music]
and bonded over the fact that we both
loved Harold and Maude. And Hal Ashby,
an amazing filmmaker who blended heart
and drama and comedy, right? And and was
not snobby about making putting jokes in
his very beautiful movie about
friendship, right? And so this shot is
not so much a shot as an edit. Hal Ashby
is an Oscar not a winning editor before
he became a filmmaker director and
this is a shot when Maude and her
you know new friend Harold are walking
through a greenhouse talking about
flowers.
About changing and growing and in the
middle of a sentence they're in one
place in this greenhouse.
And in second later in the middle of the
sentence the sentence continues but
they're in a totally different place in
a totally different setup and the
sentence is fluid as as though somehow
they teleported to this new place even
or they said a sentence a different
sentence and this is the second half of
another sentence that somehow perfectly
matches. I like to watch things grow.
They
grow and bloom and
fade and die and change into something
else. Ashby must have just had them do
the lines in a couple different places
and be kind of really fluid and then
because he's an editor he found a really
expressive way to edit the movie edit
two great takes together and two great
shots together and also
express something about accepting change
>> [laughter]
>> which is what the movie is about. So I
like as a 12-year-old I'm watching this
movie which I was inappropriate for
kids. I was like I can't believe you can
be expressive with this part of the
filmmaking too.